Proposal to Add the `Emoji` Property to several Astronomic and Astrologic Symbols in the Unicode Standard
=========================================================================================================

-   **Author:** Christoph Päper

-   **Mail:** christoph.paeper\@crissov.de

-   **Submitted:** 2016-09-[15]

Introduction
------------

I hereby request the addition of the `Emoji` property to several existing
characters in the Unicode Standard.

Rationals, glyph examples, character properties as well as discussion of
inclusion and exclusion factors are included on the following pages. As per
emoji submission guidelines
(http://www.unicode.org/emoji/selection.html\#submission) this document does not
include the character proposal form.

Glyph and Design
----------------

Emoji 4.0:

-   ♀ U+2640 Female Sign = Venus

-   ♂ U+2642 Male Sign = Mars

Unicode 9.0:

-   ☉ U+2609 Sun

-   ☿ U+263F Mercury

-   ♁ U+2641 Earth – should also get two variation sequences with VS-1 and VS-2
    to select the Cross on Top and Cross Inside variants

-   ♃ U+2643 Jupiter

-   ♄ U+2644 Saturn

-   ♅ U+2645, ⛢ U+26E2 Uranus

-   ♆ U+26E6 Neptune

-   ♇ U+2647 Pluto (Form One)

[L2/16-067](http://www.unicode.org/L2/L2016/16067r-astrological-plutos.pdf):

-   U+2BD4 PLUTO FORM TWO

-   U+2BD5 PLUTO FORM THREE

-   U+2BD6 PLUTO FORM FOUR

-   U+2BD7 PLUTO FORM FIVE

[L2/16-064](http://www.unicode.org/L2/L2016/16064r-uranian-planets.pdf):

-   U+2BE0 CUPIDO

-   U+2BE1 HADES

-   U+2BE2 ZEUS

-   U+2BE3 KRONOS

-   U+2BE4 APOLLON

-   U+2BE5 ADMETOS

-   U+2BE6 VULCANUS

-   U+2BE7 POSEIDON

[L2/16-080](http://www.unicode.org/L2/L2016/16080r-add-astrology.pdf):

-   U+2BE8 TRANSPLUTO

-   U+2BE9 PROSERPINA

-   U+2BF0 ASTRAEA

-   U+2BF1 HYGIEA

-   U+2BF2 PHOLUS

-   U+2BF3 NESSUS

-   U+2BF4 WHITE MOON SELENA

-   U+2BF5 BLACK DIAMOND ON CROSS

-   U+2BF6 TRUE LIGHT MOON ARTA

Description

![Sample Picture](.png)

Character Properties
--------------------

-   Emoji: Yes

-   Emoji Presentation: No?

-   Emoji Modifier: No

-   Emoji Modifier Base: No

The characters continue to not make use of emoji modifiers. They should have
text presentation by default (like U+2640/2).

Factors for Inclusion
---------------------

### A. Compatibility:

At least since 2015, Samsung has been shipping mobile devices running the
Android operating system with a custom emoji font `NotoColorEmoji.ttf` that
includes colorful glyphs for all the characters affected by this proposal.

![]()

### B. Expected Usage Level:

The symbols for Venus and Mars, which are based on properties of a married pair
of ancient pan-Mediterranean deities, have long doubled as symbols for the
binary sexes or genders, i.e. female/feminine and male/masculine, respectively.
Contemporarily, this use outweighs the astronomic and astrologic application.
Other planetary symbols, Mercury and Earth in particular, have also been used to
refer to a third, ambiguous, unknown, hermaphrodite or neutral gender or
non-straight sexuality, but there are also other symbols in use for these – e.g.
⚲ U+26B2 Neuter, ⚦ U+26A6 Male with Stroke Sign, ⚧ U+26A7 Male with Stroke and
Male and Female Sign, ⚨ U+26A8 Vertical Male with Stroke Sign, ⚩ U+26A9
Horizontal Male with Stroke Sign, ⚬ U+26AC Medium Small White Circle – and this
thus decreases the usage level even further compared to the default binary
opposition.

The symbols for Mercury, Saturn and Jupiter, together with the symbols for Venus
and Mars, Sun and Moon, have long been used as signs for the seven days of the
week. The respective deity or a historic local cognate thereof has been used as
a base for the names of the days of the weeks in many European and some other
languages, e.g. French *Mardi* ‘day of Mars’, English Saturday ‘

I have included several charts supplied by Google Trends showing the frequency
of searches for “[\_\_\_\_\_\_]” in comparison to other emoji.

Google search for the term “[\_\_\_\_\_\_]” returns [\_\_\_\_\_\_] results,
which is more than for [\_\_\_\_\_\_].

### C. Image distinctiveness:

...

### D. Completeness:

...

### E. Frequently Requested:

...

Factors for Exclusion
---------------------

### F. Overly Specific:

...

### G. Open-ended:

...

### H. Already Representable:

...

### I. Logos, Brands etc.

...

### J. Transient:

...

References
----------

[1] \_\_\_\_\_\_: \_\_\_\_\_\_ (\_\_\_\_\_\_)

License
-------

The sample images and the sample font included in this proposal were created by
me and me alone. I hereby declare that the Unicode Consortium and its members
are granted the right to use, edit and redistribute these contents in any way
they want without restriction. Copies of the sample images and font are
available at the following address:

Screenshots were taken from Google Trends (https://www.google.com/trends/) and
Twitter (https://twitter.com).
